# Overview


The analysis code contained in *nCounter_Analysis.Rmd* uses data stored in a folder called *Data*. The contents of the *Data* folder are described in the following subsection.


# Data Folder


- Modeling_Metadata.xls: A Microsoft Excel document with three columns
 - Sample: The sample ID. All Sample IDs start "PUL_" and are followed by a number without any additional characters.
  - Group: AIUP or ECT.
  - Data : Train or Test, indicating the discovery or prospective datasets, respectively.


- data.csv: The file of normalized data generated by nSolver using the export as csv function. Sample names found in this data file appear in a specific format (i.e., 20190301_30102250141220-01_PUL 23_01.RCC). The second row contains the group to which the sample belongs (AIUP, ECT, Adipose, Liver, or Lung), except for the first 5 columns which are empty in row 2. These columns contain "Probe Name", "Accession #", "NS Probe ID", "Class Name", and "Analyte Type", which is indicated in the first row just before the sample names.


# Running the analysis


Start the Docker image used for this analysis (see the upper level README to see how). After navigating to the *nCounter_Analysis* folder and setting it is as the working directory, click "knit".


# Outputs


The step-by-step description of the analysis is contained in *nCounter_Analysis.html*. All tables and figures included in *nCounter_Analysis.html*, plus many additional ones, are stored in the *Results* folder.


# Methods


50 ng of RNA was loaded per sample and assayed using an nCounter SPRINT Profiler running nSolver 4.0 Analysis Software. Probes targeting 60S ribosomal protein L19 (RPL19), Beta-ᴅ-glucuronidase (GUSB), and phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1) were included for use as loading controls. These genes were selected based on previously published data for endometrial housekeeping genes and their widespread use on the nCounter platform (26). Based on the global expression levels of the genes being assayed, as described in the Human Protein Atlas (HPA, version 18.1, www.proteinatlas.org), samples from additional tissues (liver (Cat. #636531, Takara Bio, USA), lung (Cat. #636524, Takara Bio, USA), and adipose (Cat. #636558, Takara Bio, USA)) were run in each assay to serve as positive and negative controls (27).


One-tailed Wilcoxon rank-sum tests were performed on normalized data, testing whether classifier gene expression was elevated in ECT samples. both data files and the reporter library file were loaded into nSolver Analysis Software (version 4.0.70). Data were processed using the software’s defaults. Briefly, gene counts were normalized on a per sample basis by dividing each sample’s counts by the geometric mean of the counts of its housekeeping genes (GUSB, PGK1, and RPL19).


Predictive models were trained using the same methods used for Microarray data. See that analysis for more details.
